documentation/pipeline/run-save-deploy.mdx, before:

---
title: "Run, save, and deploy"
---

## Running the pipeline

You can run the pipeline right from the builder screen to test pipeline execution. Make sure to meet all the requirements before doing so:

- Pipeline has at least one input node
- Pipeline has at least one output node
- All nodes and handles are connected
- All inputs are non-empty in the left sidebar
- All required variables are set in [env variables](/documentation/pipeline/env-variables) page.

Simply click "Run" near pipeline execution, and you'll see the outputs in the bottom drawer once the execution completes.

<Frame caption="execution result of a simple input-LLM-output pipeline">
  <img height="300" src="/images/pipeline-builder/run-result-simple.png" alt="execution result of a simple input-LLM-output pipeline"/>
</Frame>

## Saving your work

You don't have to, workshop version is saved automatically!

### Commit a new version

If you want to store the current pipeline to be able to come back later, click "Commit" at the top of the page, and give this new version a name.
This will save the current [workshop version](/documentation/pipeline/introduction#glossary) snapshot as a commit,
which you can later choose from the versions dropdown. Commit versions can be pointed to by endpoints and used elsewhere.

## Deploying a pipeline version

Once you are happy with your pipeline and ready to use it in external applications, be it testing or production, you can deploy your pipeline version to an endpoint.
If this is a workshop version, clocking "deploy" will create a new commit and link the selected endpoint to it.

1. Make sure you are happy with all node names, especially inputs and outputs. Remember, node names must be unique. See [Naming nodes](/documentation/pipeline/working-with-nodes/#naming-nodes).
1. Click "Deploy" at the top of the page.
1. Name this deployment so that you can identify it in the history in the future.
1. Choose an endpoint to deploy your pipeline to or create a new endpoint from the same page.

After the deployment is successful, you can go to the endpoints page and see the deployment you've just made.
For more, read [Endpoints](/documentation/endpoints/introduction).

Commit message:

fix most broken links, minor updates on deployment

documentation/pipeline/run-save-deploy.mdx, after:

---
title: "Run, save, and deploy"
---

## Running the pipeline

You can run the pipeline right from the builder screen to test pipeline execution. Make sure to meet all the requirements before doing so:

- Pipeline has at least one input node
- Pipeline has at least one output node
- All nodes and handles are connected
- All inputs are non-empty in the left sidebar
- All required variables are set in [env variables](/documentation/pipeline/env-variables) page.

Simply click "Run" near pipeline execution, and you'll see the outputs in the bottom drawer once the execution completes.

<Frame caption="execution result of a simple input-LLM-output pipeline">
  <img height="300" src="/images/pipeline-builder/run-result-simple.png" alt="execution result of a simple input-LLM-output pipeline"/>
</Frame>

## Saving your work

You don't have to, workshop version is saved automatically!

### Commit a new version

If you want to store the current pipeline to be able to come back later, click "Commit" at the top of the page, and give this new version a name.
This will save the current [workshop version](/documentation/pipeline/introduction#glossary) snapshot as a commit,
which you can later choose from the versions dropdown. Commit versions can be pointed to by endpoints and used elsewhere.

## Deploying a pipeline version

Once you are happy with your pipeline and ready to use it in external applications, be it testing or production,
you can deploy expose your pipeline as an API endpoint.

1. Make sure you are happy with all node names, especially inputs and outputs. Remember, node names must be unique. See [Naming nodes](/documentation/pipeline/working-with-nodes/#naming-nodes).
1. Commit the pipeline version. This creates an immutable snapshot.
1. Select the newly created (latest, top-most) commit from the version drop-down.
1. Click "Set as Target" at the top of the page.

After the deployment is successful, you can invoke the pipeline execition from your application. Learn more by clicking "use API" in the page
or refer to [API reference](/api-reference/pipeline/pipeline_run)
