overview.mdx, before:

---
name: Overview
---

import LaminarInstall from '/snippets/laminar-install.mdx';
import LaminarInitialize from '/snippets/laminar-initialize.mdx';
import GetProjectApiKey from '/snippets/get-project-api-key.mdx';

Laminar is an open-source observability and analytics platform for complex LLM apps. 
Laminar helps developers build better LLM applications by providing a comprehensive
set of tools for observability, analytics, and prompt chain management.

Living at the intersection of tracing and event-based analytics, Laminar is
like Datadog + PostHog for LLM applications.

Check our [Github repo](https://github.com/lmnr-ai/lmnr) to learn more about how it works or if you are interested in self-hosting.

## Getting started

### Installation

<LaminarInstall />

### Add 2 lines of code to instrument your code

<LaminarInitialize />

### Project API key

<GetProjectApiKey />

## Example: Instrument OpenAI calls with Laminar

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python">

```python
import os
from openai import OpenAI
from lmnr import Laminar as L

# OpenAI calls will be automatically patched on initialization
L.initialize(
    project_api_key=os.environ["LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY"],
)

client = OpenAI(api_key=os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"])

def poem_writer(topic: str):
    prompt = f"write a poem about {topic}"

    # OpenAI calls are automatically instrumented
    response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-4o",
        messages=[
            {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
            {"role": "user", "content": prompt},
        ],
    )
    poem = response.choices[0].message.content
    return poem

if __name__ == "__main__":
    print(poem_writer("laminar flow"))
```

</Tab>
<Tab title="JavaScript/TypeScript">

```javascript
import { OpenAI } from 'openai';
import { Laminar as L, observe } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

// OpenAI calls will be automatically patched on initialization
L.initialize({ projectApiKey: process.env.LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY });

const o = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

const poemWriter = async (topic = "turbulence") => {
  const prompt = `write a poem about ${topic}`;

  // OpenAI calls are automatically instrumented
  const response = await o.chat.completions.create({
    model: "gpt-4o",
    messages: [
      { role: "system", content: "You are a helpful assistant." },
      { role: "user", content: prompt }
    ]
  });

  const poem = response.choices[0].message.content;
  return poem;
}

// somewhere in async context
await poemWriter("laminar flow");
await L.shutdown();
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Adding manual instrumentation

If you want to trace your own functions for their durations, inputs and outputs, or want to group 
them into one trace,
you can use `@observe` decorator in Python or async `observe` function in JavaScript/TypeScript.

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python">

```python
import os
from openai import OpenAI
from lmnr import observe, Laminar as L

L.initialize(project_api_key=os.environ["LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY"])
client = OpenAI(api_key=os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"])

@observe()
def request_handler(data: dict):
    # some other logic, e.g. data preprocessing

    response1 = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-4o",
        messages=[
            {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
            {"role": "user", "content": data["prompt_1"]},
        ],
    )

    # some other logic, e.g. a conditional DB call

    response2 = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-4o",
        messages=[
            {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
            {"role": "user", "content": data["prompt_2"]},
        ],
    )

    return response2.choices[0].message.content
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="JavaScript/TypeScript">

```javascript
import { OpenAI } from 'openai';
import { Laminar as L, observe } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

L.initialize({ projectApiKey: process.env.LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY });
const o = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

const requestHandler = async (data: Record<string, string>) => 
    await observe({name: 'requestHandler'}, async () => {
        // some other logic, e.g. data preprocessing

        const response1 = await o.chat.completions.create({
            model: "gpt-4o",
            messages: [
                { role: "system", content: "You are a helpful assistant." },
                { role: "user", content: data["prompt_1"] },
            ],
        });

        // some other logic, e.g. a conditional DB call

        const response2 = await o.chat.completions.create({
            model: "gpt-4o",
            messages: [
                { role: "system", content: "You are a helpful assistant." },
                { role: "user", content: data["prompt_2"] },
            ],
        });

        return response2.choices[0].message.content;
    });

```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Next steps

[Learn more](/tracing/configuration#use-observe-to-group-separate-llm-calls-in-one-trace) about using observe.

For more language-specific instructions, check our [Python SDK](https://github.com/lmnr-ai/lmnr-python)
and [JavaScript/TypeScript SDK](https://github.com/lmnr-ai/lmnr-ts).


## Features

### Observability

Track the full execution trace of your LLM application.

Laminar's manual and automatic instrumentation is compatible with [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/).

Get started with [Tracing](/tracing/introduction).

![Screenshot of observability dashboard](/images/overview.png)

### Events and Analytics

Make sense of thousands of traces generated by your LLM application.
Evaluate and catch failures of your agents in real-time. Gather metrics on user or agent behavior based on semantic meaning.

Laminar provides infrastructure to run LLM analysis to extract semantic events,
such as "user sentiment" or "did my LLM agent upsell?", and then turn them
into trackable metrics. Combining these events with the trace data allows
you to link back to the specific user interaction that caused the event
and gives you a better understanding of the user experience.

In addition, you can track raw metrics, by sending events with values directly
to Laminar.

Learn more about [Events](/events/introduction) extraction.

### Prompt chain management

You can build and host chains of prompts and LLMs and then call them as if each chain was a single function.
It is especially useful when you want to experiment with techniques, such as Mixture of Agents
and self-reflecting agents, without or before hosting prompts and model configs in your code.

Learn more about [Pipeline builder](/pipeline/introduction) for prompt chains.

### Evaluations

In addition to semantic events, Laminar allows you to run evaluations and analyze their
results in the dashboard.

You can use Laminar's JavaScript and Python SDKs to set up and ran your evaluations.

Learn more about [Evaluations](/evaluations/introduction).

Commit message:

some on span labelling and datasets

overview.mdx, after:

---
name: Overview
---

import LaminarInstall from '/snippets/laminar-install.mdx';
import LaminarInitialize from '/snippets/laminar-initialize.mdx';
import GetProjectApiKey from '/snippets/get-project-api-key.mdx';

Laminar is an open-source LLM engineering platform.

Laminar powers the data flywheel for your LLM applications. With Laminar, you can
trace, evaluate, annotate, analyze, and re-use your LLM data.

Check our [Github repo](https://github.com/lmnr-ai/lmnr) to learn more about how it works or if you are interested in self-hosting.

## Getting started

### Installation

<LaminarInstall />

### Add 2 lines to instrument your code

<LaminarInitialize />

### Project API key

<GetProjectApiKey />

## Example: Instrument OpenAI calls with Laminar

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python">

```python
import os
from openai import OpenAI
from lmnr import Laminar as L

L.initialize(
    project_api_key=os.environ["LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY"],
)

client = OpenAI(api_key=os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"])

def poem_writer(topic: str):
    prompt = f"write a poem about {topic}"

    # OpenAI calls are automatically instrumented
    response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-4o",
        messages=[
            {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
            {"role": "user", "content": prompt},
        ],
    )
    poem = response.choices[0].message.content
    return poem

if __name__ == "__main__":
    print(poem_writer("laminar flow"))
```

</Tab>
<Tab title="JavaScript/TypeScript">

```javascript
import { Laminar as L, observe } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';
L.initialize({ projectApiKey: process.env.LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY });
/// ...
import { OpenAI } from 'openai';

const o = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

const poemWriter = async (topic = "turbulence") => {
  const prompt = `write a poem about ${topic}`;

  // OpenAI calls are automatically instrumented
  const response = await o.chat.completions.create({
    model: "gpt-4o",
    messages: [
      { role: "system", content: "You are a helpful assistant." },
      { role: "user", content: prompt }
    ]
  });

  const poem = response.choices[0].message.content;
  return poem;
}

// somewhere in async context
await poemWriter("laminar flow");
await L.shutdown();
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Adding manual instrumentation

If you want to trace your own functions for their durations, inputs and outputs, or want to group 
them into one trace,
you can use `@observe` decorator in Python or async `observe` function in JavaScript/TypeScript.

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python">

```python
import os
from openai import OpenAI
from lmnr import observe, Laminar as L

L.initialize(project_api_key=os.environ["LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY"])
client = OpenAI(api_key=os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"])

@observe()
def request_handler(data: dict):
    # some other logic, e.g. data preprocessing

    response1 = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-4o",
        messages=[
            {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
            {"role": "user", "content": data["prompt_1"]},
        ],
    )

    # some other logic, e.g. a conditional DB call

    response2 = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-4o",
        messages=[
            {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant."},
            {"role": "user", "content": data["prompt_2"]},
        ],
    )

    return response2.choices[0].message.content
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="JavaScript/TypeScript">

```javascript
import { OpenAI } from 'openai';
import { Laminar as L, observe } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

L.initialize({ projectApiKey: process.env.LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY });
const o = new OpenAI({ apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY });

const requestHandler = async (data: Record<string, string>) => 
    await observe({name: 'requestHandler'}, async () => {
        // some other logic, e.g. data preprocessing

        const response1 = await o.chat.completions.create({
            model: "gpt-4o",
            messages: [
                { role: "system", content: "You are a helpful assistant." },
                { role: "user", content: data["prompt_1"] },
            ],
        });

        // some other logic, e.g. a conditional DB call

        const response2 = await o.chat.completions.create({
            model: "gpt-4o",
            messages: [
                { role: "system", content: "You are a helpful assistant." },
                { role: "user", content: data["prompt_2"] },
            ],
        });

        return response2.choices[0].message.content;
    });

```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

### Next steps

[Learn more](/tracing/configuration#use-observe-to-group-separate-llm-calls-in-one-trace) about
using `observe` and manual instrumentation.


## Features

### Observability

Track the full execution trace of your LLM application.

Laminar's instrumentation is compatible with [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/).

Get started with [Tracing](/tracing/introduction).

![Screenshot of observability dashboard](/images/overview.png)

### Events and Analytics

Make sense of thousands of traces generated by your LLM application.
Evaluate and catch failures of your agents in real-time. Gather metrics on user or agent behavior based on semantic meaning.

Laminar provides infrastructure to run LLM analysis to extract semantic events,
such as "user sentiment" or "did my LLM agent upsell?", and then turn them
into trackable metrics. Combining these events with the trace data allows
you to link back to the specific user interaction that caused the event
and gives you a better understanding of the user experience.

In addition, you can track raw metrics, by sending events with values directly
to Laminar.

Learn more about [Events](/events/introduction) extraction.

### Data labeling and re-ingestion

Laminar provides you with a UI where you can label and annotate the traces of your LLM applications.
Organize the labeled data into datasets and use them to update your prompts or fine-tune your models.

Perform advanced hybrid search on datasets to augment your prompts with the most semantically relevant.

Learn more about [Data labeling](/datasets/label-spans) and [Datasets](/datasets/introduction).

### Evaluations

In addition to semantic events, Laminar allows you to run evaluations offline and analyze their
results in the dashboard.

You can use Laminar's JavaScript and Python SDKs to set up and ran your evaluations.

Learn more about [Evaluations](/evaluations/introduction).

### Prompt chain management

You can build and host chains of prompts and LLMs and then call them as if each chain was a single function.
It is especially useful when you want to experiment with techniques, such as Mixture of Agents
and self-reflecting agents, without or before hosting prompts and model configs in your code.

Learn more about [Pipeline builder](/pipeline/introduction) for prompt chains.
