evaluations/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
description: Evaluate the results of your LLM applications with Laminar
---

import LaminarInstall from '/snippets/laminar-install.mdx';

Evaluation is the concept of running your production logic against some dataset
and evaluating its results with another function.

### Why do we need evaluations?

TL;DR: Evaluations help bring rigor to AI development process.

During the development process, it is natural to "vibe-check" the outputs of LLMs.
It is a good way to get a sense of how well your model or prompt is performing.
However, this is both not scalable and not reliable. We like to think of evaluations as
almost like unit tests, where you can test your models against a dataset. The difference
is that the output is not binary (pass/fail), but a score or a set of scores.

This approach allows you to control most variables and only
check one thing in isolation, e.g., how does the new prompt perform in comparison
to the existing one.

## Key concepts

- Executor – the function being evaluated, often your prompt or (to-be-)production logic
- Evaluator - the function evaluating the results
- Dataset - collection of datapoints to run executors and evaluators against
- Datapoint – two fixed JSON maps: `data` and `target` each with any keys.
  - `data` – data sent to the executor.
  - `target` – data sent to the evaluator. Usually, contains the expected or target outputs of certain parts of your executor.

## Flow overview

<Frame caption="High-level overview of the evaluation flow">
  <img
    height="300"
    src="/images/evaluations/evaluation-with-executor.png"
    alt="High-level overview of the evaluation flow with the executor pipeline"
  />
</Frame>

For every datapoint in the dataset, evaluation does the following:

1. Pass the `data` as an argument to the executor.
1. Run the executor.
1. Executor output is stored.
1. Output of the executor and `target` are passed to the _evaluator_ function.
1. Evaluator pipeline produces a numeric output or a json object with several numeric outputs.
This is stored in the results of the evaluation.

## Quickstart

### Prerequisites

<LaminarInstall />

### Example. Running and registering evaluations

#### 1. Create an evaluation file.

<Tabs>
<Tab title = "Python">

Create a file named `my-first-evaluation.py` and add the following code:

```python
# my-first-evaluation.py
from lmnr import evaluate

def write_poem(topic: str) -> str:
    # replace this with your LLM call or custom logic
    return f"This is a good poem about {topic}"

def contains_poem(output: str, target: str) -> int:
    return 1 if target in output else 0

evaluate(
    data=[
        {
            "data": {"topic": "flowers"},
            "target": {"poem": "This is a good poem about flowers"}
        },
        {
            "data": {"topic": "cats"},
            "target": {"poem": "I like cats"}
        },
    ],
    executor=write_poem,
    evaluators={"containsPoem": contains_poem}
)
```

</Tab>
<Tab title = "JavaScript/TypeScript">

Create a file named `my-first-evaluation.ts` and add the following code:

```javascript
// my-first-evaluation.ts
import { evaluate } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

const writePoem = ({topic}: {topic: string}) => {
    // replace this with your LLM call or custom logic
    return `This is a good poem about ${topic}`
}

evaluate({
    data: [
        {
            data: { topic: 'flowers' },
            target: { poem: 'This is a good poem about flowers' }
        },
        {
            data: { topic: 'cats' },
            target: { poem: 'I like cats' }
        },
    ],
    executor: (data) => writePoem(data),
    evaluators: {
        containsPoem: (output, target) => target.poem.includes(output) ? 1 : 0
    }
})
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

#### 2. Run the evaluation

You can run the evaluations both from Laminar CLI and from code.
To run the evaluation from the CLI, execute the following command:

<Tabs>
<Tab title = "Python">
```sh
# 1. Make sure `lmnr` is installed in a virtual environment
# lmnr --help
# 2. Run the evaluation
export LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY=<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>
lmnr eval my-first-evaluation.py
```
</Tab>
<Tab title = "JavaScript/TypeScript">
```sh
export LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY=<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>
npx lmnr eval my-first-evaluation.ts
```
</Tab>

</Tabs>

To run the evaluation directly from code, simply call the `evaluate` function, i.e. import or
run the file created in the previous step.

### Concepts

- Executor takes in a `Map<string, any>` (set to the value of `data`) parameter and returns anything
- Evaluator takes in a `Map<string, any` (set to the value of `target`) parameter and the output of the executor
- Evaluator returns either a single numeric score or a JSON object / dict, with string keys and numeric values for multiple scores

## Viewing evaluation results and traces

When you run an evaluation from the CLI, Laminar will output the link to the dashboard
where you can view the evaluation results.

Laminar stores every evaluation result.
A run for every datapoint is represented as a trace.
You can view the results and corresponding traces in the evaluations page.

Commit message:

cleanup unused docs, update evals to not be restricted to json map

evaluations/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
description: Evaluate the results of your LLM applications with Laminar
---

import LaminarInstall from '/snippets/laminar-install.mdx';

Evaluation is the concept of running your production logic against some dataset
and evaluating its results with another function.

### Why do we need evaluations?

TL;DR: Evaluations help bring rigor to AI development process.

During the development process, it is natural to "vibe-check" the outputs of LLMs.
It is a good way to get a sense of how well your model or prompt is performing.
However, this is both not scalable and not reliable. We like to think of evaluations as
almost like unit tests, where you can test your models against a dataset. The difference
is that the output is not binary (pass/fail), but a score or a set of scores.

This approach allows you to control most variables and only
check one thing in isolation, e.g., how does the new prompt perform in comparison
to the existing one.

## Key concepts

- Executor – the function being evaluated, often your prompt or (to-be-)production logic
- Evaluator - the function evaluating the results
- Dataset - collection of datapoints to run executors and evaluators against
- Datapoint – two values: `data` and `target` each represented as JSON.
  - `data` – data sent to the executor. Required.
  - `target` – data sent to the evaluator. Usually, contains the expected or target outputs of certain parts of your executor. Optional.

### Example datapoint

```json
{
  "data": {"topic": "flowers"},
  "target": "This is a good poem about flowers"
}
```

## Flow overview

<Frame caption="High-level overview of the evaluation flow">
  <img
    height="300"
    src="/images/evaluations/evaluation-with-executor.png"
    alt="High-level overview of the evaluation flow with the executor pipeline"
  />
</Frame>

For every datapoint in the dataset, evaluation does the following:

1. Pass the `data` as an argument to the executor.
1. Run the executor.
1. Executor output is stored.
1. Output of the executor and `target` are passed to the _evaluator_ function.
1. Evaluator pipeline produces a numeric output or a json object with several numeric outputs.
This is stored in the results of the evaluation.

## Quickstart

### Prerequisites

<LaminarInstall />

### Example. Running and registering evaluations

#### 1. Create an evaluation file.

<Tabs>
<Tab title = "Python">

Create a file named `my-first-evaluation.py` and add the following code:

```python
# my-first-evaluation.py
from lmnr import evaluate

def write_poem(topic: str) -> str:
    # replace this with your LLM call or custom logic
    return f"This is a good poem about {topic}"

def contains_poem(output: str, target: str) -> int:
    return 1 if target in output else 0

evaluate(
    data=[
        {
            "data": {"topic": "flowers"},
            "target": {"poem": "This is a good poem about flowers"}
        },
        {
            "data": {"topic": "cats"},
            "target": {"poem": "I like cats"}
        },
    ],
    executor=write_poem,
    evaluators={"containsPoem": contains_poem}
)
```

</Tab>
<Tab title = "JavaScript/TypeScript">

Create a file named `my-first-evaluation.ts` and add the following code:

```javascript
// my-first-evaluation.ts
import { evaluate } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

const writePoem = ({topic}: {topic: string}) => {
    // replace this with your LLM call or custom logic
    return `This is a good poem about ${topic}`
}

evaluate({
    data: [
        {
            data: { topic: 'flowers' },
            target: { poem: 'This is a good poem about flowers' }
        },
        {
            data: { topic: 'cats' },
            target: { poem: 'I like cats' }
        },
    ],
    executor: (data) => writePoem(data),
    evaluators: {
        containsPoem: (output, target) => target.poem.includes(output) ? 1 : 0
    }
})
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

#### 2. Run the evaluation

You can run the evaluations both from Laminar CLI and from code.
To run the evaluation from the CLI, execute the following command:

<Tabs>
<Tab title = "Python">
```sh
# 1. Make sure `lmnr` is installed in a virtual environment
# lmnr --help
# 2. Run the evaluation
export LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY=<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>
lmnr eval my-first-evaluation.py
```
</Tab>
<Tab title = "JavaScript/TypeScript">
```sh
export LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY=<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>
npx lmnr eval my-first-evaluation.ts
```
</Tab>

</Tabs>

To run the evaluation directly from code, simply call the `evaluate` function, i.e. import or
run the file created in the previous step.

<Tip>
Evaluator returns either a single numeric score or a JSON object / dict, with string keys and numeric values for multiple scores
</Tip>

## Viewing evaluation results and traces

When you run an evaluation from the CLI, Laminar will output the link to the dashboard
where you can view the evaluation results.

Laminar stores every evaluation result.
A run for every datapoint is represented as a trace.
You can view the results and corresponding traces in the evaluations page.
