pipeline/page-navigation.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Navigating the page'
description: "Tips and basics of getting around Laminar's pipeline page"
---

## Flow

Flow builder is the main part in the middle of the page, where you can build your pipeline.

### Adding nodes

Drag and drop a node from the right sidebar to add it to the flow.

### Removing nodes

Click the node, and then click the wastebin icon that appears above the node to delete it. Alternatively, click on a node and press "Delete" on your keyboard.
Be careful, this action will not trigger an "are you sure" dialog and cannot be undone.

### Connecting nodes

Drag and drop from the output handle of one node to the input handle of the other node to connect two nodes. [Read more](/pipeline/working-with-nodes#connecting-nodes-handles).

### Removing connections

Hover over a connection (edge) and click a red cross in its center to delete it. Alternatively, disconnect the edge by dragging one of its ends away from a node handle.

### Navigating the flow

Click and hold anywhere and move your mouse to move the view. Scroll with the mouse to zoom in and out.

### Loops and cyclic connections

Our flow also supports loops. Any node's output handle can be connected to another node's input handle to create loops.

### Node information

The information icon on top of each node will take you to the relevant docs page.

## Header

In the top of the page, there is a header with all the crucial navigation info.

### Navigation info

In the very left, path to the pipeline in the format `project_name / pipelines /  pipeline_name` is shown.
If you click the word "pipelines", you will be redirected back to the page with all the pipelines within the project.

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/header-nav.png" alt="screenshot of pipeline header navigation"/>

### Version control

To the right of navigation info, there is a menu for version control. Here you can find:

- Version dropdown to select a version
- "Commit" button to [create a new commit](/pipeline/run-save-deploy#commit-a-new-version).
- "Set as Target" button to [set a commit version as target](/pipeline/run-save-deploy#deploying-a-pipeline-version).
- "Overwrite workshop" button to clone the currently seen commit to the workshop version of this pipeline, in order to make changes

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/header-version-control.png" alt="screenshot of pipeline header navigation"/>
<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/header-version-control-commit.png" alt="screenshot of pipeline header navigation for a commited version"/>

In addition, here you can control quick access to the [env variables](/pipeline/env-variables) required for execution.

## Left sidebar

The left sidebar contains basic version info and the inputs control.

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/pipeline-left-sidebar.png" alt="screenshot of pipeline left sidebar"/>

### Pipeline version info

Contains the version name, and the (commit) version uuid for debugging purposes.

### Execution inputs control

This menu contains fields for the inputs of the pipeline execution. Every input field here corresponds to every input node in the flow.

Fill the inputs in and click run or press Ctrl/Cmd + Enter.

If your input is of type "ChatMessageList", you can manually upload the chat history here. Click "Add message" to append a new message.
Click on the "USER" or "ASSISTANT" label to toggle the role. "SYSTEM" message is sent to LLMs throught the "prompt" field on LLM node.
Click the "-" sign to the right of each message to remove it.

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/chat-message-input.png" alt="screenshot of example chat message list input"/>

## Right sidebar

Right sidebar contains the list of all possible nodes that you can add to the flow. To add a node to the flow, drag it from here and drop it to the flow view in the middle.

## View controls

The icons in the top-right allow you to hide/show the left and right sidebars.

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/view-controls.png" alt="screenshot of the pipeline view controls buttons"/>

## Bottom drawer

The bottom drawer shows the execution outputs. This shows the output of the current run in real time.

The bottom drawer pulls up once the execution of the pipeline starts. You can, however, resize it either using the handle
in the middle or the fullscreen button in the top of the drawer.

Commit message:

update pipeline builder docs with better intro

pipeline/page-navigation.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Navigating the page'
description: "Tips and basics of getting around Laminar's pipeline page"
---

## Flow

Flow builder is the main part in the middle of the page, where you can build your pipeline.

### Adding nodes

Drag and drop a node from the right sidebar to add it to the flow.

### Removing nodes

Click the node, and then click the wastebin icon that appears above the node to delete it. Alternatively, click on a node and press "Delete" on your keyboard.
Be careful, this action will not trigger an "are you sure" dialog and cannot be undone.

### Connecting nodes

Drag and drop from the output handle of one node to the input handle of the other node to connect two nodes. [Read more](/pipeline/working-with-nodes#connecting-nodes-handles).

### Removing connections

Hover over a connection (edge) and click a red cross in its center to delete it. Alternatively, disconnect the edge by dragging one of its ends away from a node handle.

### Changing prompts / node settings

Click on a node and then on a gear icon above it to edit it. Here you can change the node's name, work on the prompts,
and set the node's settings. For a better idea of what you can configure on an LLM node,
[Read more](/nodes/LLM).

### Navigating the flow

Click and hold anywhere and move your mouse to move the view. Scroll with the mouse to zoom in and out.

### Loops and cyclic connections

Our flow also supports loops. Any node's output handle can be connected to another node's input handle to create loops.

### Node information

The information icon on top of each node will take you to the relevant docs page.

## Header

In the top of the page, there is a header with all the crucial navigation info.

### Navigation info

In the very left, path to the pipeline in the format `project_name / pipelines /  pipeline_name` is shown.
If you click the word "pipelines", you will be redirected back to the page with all the pipelines within the project.

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/header-nav.png" alt="screenshot of pipeline header navigation"/>

### Version control

To the right of navigation info, there is a menu for version control. Here you can find:

- Version dropdown to select a version
- "Commit" button to [create a new commit](/pipeline/run-save-deploy#commit-a-new-version).
- "Set as Target" button to [set a commit version as target](/pipeline/run-save-deploy#deploying-a-pipeline-version).
- "Overwrite workshop" button to clone the currently seen commit to the workshop version of this pipeline, in order to make changes

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/header-version-control.png" alt="screenshot of pipeline header navigation"/>
<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/header-version-control-commit.png" alt="screenshot of pipeline header navigation for a commited version"/>

In addition, here you can control quick access to the [env variables](/pipeline/env-variables) required for execution.

## Left sidebar

The left sidebar contains basic version info and the inputs control.

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/pipeline-left-sidebar.png" alt="screenshot of pipeline left sidebar"/>

### Pipeline version info

Contains the version name, and the (commit) version uuid for debugging purposes.

### Execution inputs control

This menu contains fields for the inputs of the pipeline execution. Every input field here corresponds to every input node in the flow.

Fill the inputs in and click run or press Ctrl/Cmd + Enter.

If your input is of type "ChatMessageList", you can manually upload the chat history here. Click "Add message" to append a new message.
Click on the "USER" or "ASSISTANT" label to toggle the role. "SYSTEM" message is sent to LLMs throught the "prompt" field on LLM node.
Click the "-" sign to the right of each message to remove it.

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/chat-message-input.png" alt="screenshot of example chat message list input"/>

## Right sidebar

Right sidebar contains the list of all possible nodes that you can add to the flow. To add a node to the flow, drag it from here and drop it to the flow view in the middle.

## View controls

The icons in the top-right allow you to hide/show the left and right sidebars.

<img src="/images/pipeline-builder/view-controls.png" alt="screenshot of the pipeline view controls buttons"/>

## Bottom drawer

The bottom drawer shows the execution outputs. This shows the output of the current run in real time.

The bottom drawer pulls up once the execution of the pipeline starts. You can, however, resize it either using the handle
in the middle or the fullscreen button in the top of the drawer.
