tracing/sessions.mdx, before:

---
title: Sessions
description: Grouping your traces into sessions
---

## Introduction

Sessions are a way to group your traces together. 
They are useful when you want to group traces that are related to a single user interaction or a single request.

For example, if your application is a conversational chatbot, where at every turn in the conversation your application
does several things, such as processing the user input, calling the database, and generating a response,
you might want to represent each turn in the conversation as a trace, and the whole conversation as a session.

## Sending sessions

### Prerequisites

Make sure to install the package and get your API key from the Laminar dashboard.
Read more in [Installation](/overview#installation).

### Associate a trace with a session

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python">

Simply call the `Laminar.set_session(session_id="session123")` within or outside any span context.
All the subsequent spans will be associated with the session.

```python
from lmnr import Laminar as L, observe

Laminar.initialize(project_api_key=os.environ["LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY"])

@observe()
def my_function():
    L.set_session(session_id="session123")
    # your code here

    # optionally, at the end of the session, you can clear the session id
    L.clear_session()
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="JavaScript/TypeScript">

Use the `Laminar.contextWithSession` within to create a context with a sessionId.
All the subsequent spans will be associated with the session.

```javascript
import { Laminar as L } from "@lmnr-ai/lmnr";

import { context as contextApi } from '@opentelemetry/api';
import { Laminar } from '@lmnr-ai/laminar';
const context = Laminar.contextWithSession({ sessionId: "session123"});
contextApi.with(context, () => {
    // Your code here
});
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Viewing sessions

Go to Laminar traces page and either filter the traces by session_id or search by part of the session id in the searh bar.
Because sessions are stored in span attributes, partial match search will work.

Commit message:

some on span labelling and datasets

tracing/sessions.mdx, after:

---
title: Sessions
description: Grouping your traces into sessions
---

## Introduction

Sessions are a way to group your traces together. 
They are useful when you want to group traces that are related to a single user interaction or a single request.

For example, imagine a conversational chatbot that at every turn in the conversation
does several things, such as processing the user input, calling the database, and generating a response.
In such case, we may want to represent each turn in the conversation as a trace, and the whole conversation as a session.

## Sending sessions

### Prerequisites

Make sure to install the package and get your API key from the Laminar dashboard.
Read more in [Installation](/overview#installation).

### Associate a trace with a session

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python">

Simply call the `Laminar.set_session(session_id="session123")` within or outside any span context.
All the subsequent spans will be associated with the session.

```python
from lmnr import Laminar as L, observe

Laminar.initialize(project_api_key=os.environ["LMNR_PROJECT_API_KEY"])

@observe()
def my_function():
    L.set_session(session_id="session123")
    # your code here

    # optionally, at the end of the session, you can clear the session id
    L.clear_session()
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="JavaScript/TypeScript">

Use the `Laminar.contextWithSession` within to create a context with a sessionId.
All the subsequent spans will be associated with the session.

```javascript
import { Laminar as L } from "@lmnr-ai/lmnr";

import { context as contextApi } from '@opentelemetry/api';
import { Laminar } from '@lmnr-ai/laminar';
const context = Laminar.contextWithSession({ sessionId: "session123"});
contextApi.with(context, () => {
    // Your code here
});
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Viewing sessions

Go to Laminar traces page and swithc the tab to sessions.
Click on the session to view all the traces associated with the session.
