events/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

## General

Events are building blocks of the analytics in Laminar. Events are powerful way to mine metrics from your trace data. There are two types of events:

- Regular events
- Semantic events

Laminar Events are OpenTelemetry-compatible.

### Regular events

Regular events are programmatically triggered events.
They are triggered from the code manually and the `value` is assigned by the user.

These events are useful when you want to track specific points in your code execution or associate metric values
with specific points in your code.

Because of the OpenTelemetry compatibility, the `value` of the event can be Boolean, String, or Number, or a sequence of each.

Example of a regular event:

<Tabs>
<Tab title = "Python">
    
```python
from lmnr import Laminar as L

L.initialize()
L.event("user_reaction", "left_conversation")
```

</Tab>
<Tab title = "JavaScript/TypeScript">
    
```javascript
import { Laminar as L } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

L.initialize()
L.event("user_reaction", "left_conversation")
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

[Learn more](/events/regular-events)

### Semantic events

The values for semantic events are assigned by LLM. They can be either Boolean, String, or Number [Learn more](/events/semantic-events)

First, you need to create a pipeline in Laminar that will assess the event.
Typically, this will be an LLM or chain of LLMs, that assesses whether the event has happened or assigns a value to it.

To be more specific, they will be processed on the Laminar backend, so there is no overhead for your code.
An example of a semantic event would be a user sentiment detection.

[Learn more](/events/semantic-events)

Commit message:

slightly improve events descriptions with optional events and others

events/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

## General

Events are building blocks of the analytics in Laminar. Events are powerful way to mine metrics from your trace data. There are two types of events:

- Regular events
- Semantic events

Laminar Events are OpenTelemetry-compatible.

### Regular events

Regular events are programmatically triggered events.
They are triggered from the code manually and the `value` is assigned by the user.

These events are useful when you want to track specific points in your code execution or associate metric values
with specific points in your code.

Because of the OpenTelemetry compatibility, the `value` of the event can be Boolean, String, or Number.
In Laminar's SDKs, `value` is optional. If value is not provided, it will be set to `true`.
This is useful for events that are just a signal.

Example of a regular event:

<Tabs>
<Tab title = "Python">
    
```python
from lmnr import Laminar as L

L.initialize()
L.event("user_reaction", "left_conversation")
```

</Tab>
<Tab title = "JavaScript/TypeScript">
    
```javascript
import { Laminar as L } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

L.initialize()
L.event("user_reaction", "left_conversation")
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

[Learn more](/events/regular-events)

### Semantic events

The values for semantic events are assigned by LLM. They can be either Boolean, String, or Number [Learn more](/events/semantic-events)

First, you need to create a pipeline in Laminar that will assess the event.
Typically, this will be an LLM or chain of LLMs, that assesses whether the event has happened or assigns a value to it.

To be more specific, they will be processed on the Laminar backend, so there is no overhead for your code.
An example of a semantic event would be a user sentiment detection.

[Learn more](/events/semantic-events)
