events/semantic-events.mdx, before:

---
title: Semantic events
description: Quickstart on how to setup semantic events in Laminar
---

Semantic events are events for which the value is **not** known at the code execution time.
You would usually need an LLM or a custom evaluator to determine the value of a semantic event.

Note that semantic events are more like "online" or real-time evaluations.
Even though you can do ["offline" evaluations](/evaluations/introduction) in Laminar before releasing your code to production, you would still want to make sure your code works correctly
when real-world interactions happen. Then, you want to surface the issues and see the stats on how it performs. You can use this data later to improve your application.

Let's go through the setup of a semantic event.

## 1. Select name for your event

Select any name for your event. In current example, let's assume you have the RAG pipeline and you want to evaluate how much the answer to the question is grounded in context.
We will name the event `Groundedness_score`.

<Tip>
The use-cases are not limited to RAG, but you can also evaluate other types of semantic events:

1. Evaluate the user sentiment: `Positive`, `Negative`, `Neutral`. Use `String` type.
2. Evaluate the category of the user's inquirt: `PURCHASE`, `REFUND`, or `OTHER`. Use `String` type.
3. Evaluate if the user's question was related to the product. Based on that, check if the bot has correctly identified the user's intent and acted accordingly. Use `Boolean` type.

To see how to evaluate events for these use-cases, create a new pipeline,
and you will see suggested templates in the "Semantic Event Evaluation" section.
</Tip>

Event name must be unique within the project.

## 2. Value type

Value type can be either `Boolean`, `String`, or `Number`.

We will create a pipeline which takes `answer`, `question`, and `context` as inputs and outputs a `Number`.

You don't have to explicitly specify the value type - the value type is inferred based on output of the pipeline.

## 3. Create a pipeline

1. Go to the pipelines page and click on "New pipeline".

2. Enter the name as `get_groundedness_score` and select a pipeline from templates called `RAG relevance score` in "Semantic Event Evaluation" section.
That will open the pipeline builder with the pipeline created.
Note that the `Output` node casts the output to `Number` type.

3. Click "Commit" to commit this pipeline and enter commit name "v1". Then, go to the newly-created commit by selecting "v1" in the dropdown in the top left corner.

4. Click "Set as target" to set "v1" commit as the target version. Target version is the version of the pipeline that will be used for evaluation.

Check [pipeline docs](/pipeline/introduction) to learn more how to create a pipeline by yourself.

## 4. Trigger a semantic event

To trigger a semantic event, call the `evaluate_event` function inside a function instrumented with `observe`.

If an event is sent outside of span context, we will have nothing to associate it with, so it
won't be recorded. Make sure to wrap your function with `observe`.

`evaluate_event` function takes the following arguments:

- `event_name` - name of the event to be evaluated. For this example, it will be `Groundedness_score`.

- `evaluator` - name of the evaluator pipeline to be used. For this example, it will be `get_groundedness_score`.

<Tip>Note that pipeline name, similarly to the event name, is unique for each project. We will match the project by Laminar API key and find the pipeline with the given name.</Tip>

- `data` - dictionary mapping input node names to their values. Values can be either strings or chat message list.

- `env` - dictionary mapping secret names to their values. For example, if your pipeline uses OpenAI, you can pass `OPENAI_API_KEY` here.

<Tip>If you click 'use API' in the pipeline builder, when target version is selected, you can see the required env variables to be passed to env here.
If required environment variables are not passed, we will not be able to trigger the pipeline.</Tip>

<Tabs>
<Tab title = "Python">
    
```python
from lmnr import Laminar as L, observe

L.initialize(project_api_key='<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>')

@observe()
def get_answer(question: str):

    context = "Example context"
    answer = "Example answer"

    L.evaluate_event(
        "Groundedness_score",
        "get_groundedness_score",
        {
            "answer": answer,
            "question": question,
            "context": context,
        },
        {"OPENAI_API_KEY": "my_openai_api_key"},
    )

    return answer

if __name__ == "__main__":
    get_answer("Example question")
```

</Tab>
<Tab title = "JavaScript/TypeScript">
    
```javascript
import { Laminar as L, observe } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

L.initialize({projectApiKey: '<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>'})

await observe('myFunction', async () => {
    
    const question = "Example question"
    const context = "Example context"
    const answer = "Example answer"

    L.evaluateEvent(
        "Groundedness_score",
        "get_groundedness_score",
        {
            answer,
            question,
            context,
        },
        {"OPENAI_API_KEY": "my_openai_api_key"},
    )
    
    console.log(`The answer is: ${answer}`)
});
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

`evaluate_event` function will trigger the background process on Laminar side and the event outcome will be recorded in the event outcome tab.


### Event metrics

After executing the code, you will be able to see traces in the traces page.
If you open the trace by clicking on it, you will see the semantic event attached to the span.

Statistics of the events are available in the Laminar dashboard and the events can be seen in the events page.
If you click on the event, you will be able to access the trace where the event was triggered.

Traces of the evaluator pipelines are also available in the traces page.

Commit message:

some on span labelling and datasets

events/semantic-events.mdx, after:

---
title: Semantic events
description: Quickstart on how to setup semantic events in Laminar
---

Semantic events are events for which the value is **not** known at the code execution time.
You would usually need an LLM or a custom evaluator to determine the value of a semantic event.

Note that semantic events are more like "online" or real-time evaluations.
Even though you can do ["offline" evaluations](/evaluations/introduction) in Laminar before releasing your code to production, you would still want to make sure your code works correctly
when real-world interactions happen. Then, you want to surface the issues and see the stats on how it performs. You can use this data later to improve your application.

Let's go through the setup of a semantic event.

## 1. Select a name for your event

Select any name for your event. In this example, let's assume you have the RAG pipeline and you want to evaluate how much the answer to the question is grounded in context.
We will name the event `Groundedness_score`.

<Tip>
The use cases are not limited to RAG, but you can also evaluate other types of semantic events:

1. Evaluate the user sentiment: `Positive`, `Negative`, `Neutral`. Use `String` type.
1. Evaluate the category of the user's inquiry: `PURCHASE`, `REFUND`, or `OTHER`. Use `String` type.
1. Evaluate if the user's question was related to the product. Based on that, check if the bot has correctly identified the user's intent and acted accordingly. Use `Boolean` type.

To see how to evaluate events for these use cases, create a new pipeline,
and you will see suggested templates in the "Semantic Event Evaluation" section.
</Tip>

Event name must be unique within the project.

## 2. Value type

Value type can be `Boolean`, `String`, or `Number`.

We will create a pipeline which takes `answer`, `question`, and `context` as inputs and outputs a `Number`.

You don't have to explicitly specify the value type of a semantic event when you send it
– the type is inferred from the output type of the pipeline.

## 3. Create a pipeline

1. Go to the pipelines page and click on "New pipeline".

1. Enter the name `get_groundedness_score` and select a pipeline from templates called `RAG relevance score` in "Semantic Event Evaluation" section.
This will open the pipeline builder with the pipeline created.
Note that the `Output` node casts the output to `Number` type.

1. Click "Commit" to commit this pipeline and enter commit name "v1". Then, go to the newly-created commit by selecting "v1" in the dropdown in the top-left corner.

1. Click "Set as target" to set "v1" commit as the target version. Target version is the version of the pipeline that will be used for evaluation.

Check [pipeline docs](/pipeline/introduction) to learn more about how to create pipelines.

## 4. Trigger a semantic event

To trigger a semantic event, call the `evaluate_event` function inside a function instrumented with `observe`.

If an event is sent outside of span context, we will have nothing to associate it with, so it
won't be recorded. Make sure to wrap the function where event is sent, or one of its parent functions, with `observe` or with a manual span context.

`evaluate_event` function takes the following arguments:

- `event_name` - name of the event to be evaluated. For this example, it will be `Groundedness_score`.

- `evaluator` - name of the evaluator pipeline to be used. For this example, it will be `get_groundedness_score`.

<Tip>Note that pipeline name, similarly to the event name, is unique for each project. We will match the project by Laminar API key and find the pipeline with the given name.</Tip>

- `data` - dictionary mapping input node names to their values. Values can be either strings or chat message list.

- `env` - dictionary mapping secret names to their values. For example, if your pipeline uses OpenAI, you can pass `OPENAI_API_KEY` here.

<Tip>If you click 'use API' in the pipeline builder, when target version is selected, you can see the required env variables to be passed to env here.
If required environment variables are not passed, we will not be able to trigger the pipeline.</Tip>

<Tabs>
<Tab title = "Python">
    
```python
from lmnr import Laminar as L, observe

L.initialize(project_api_key='<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>')

@observe()
def get_answer(question: str):

    context = "Example context"
    answer = "Example answer"

    L.evaluate_event(
        "Groundedness_score",
        "get_groundedness_score",
        {
            "answer": answer,
            "question": question,
            "context": context,
        },
        {"OPENAI_API_KEY": "my_openai_api_key"},
    )

    return answer

if __name__ == "__main__":
    get_answer("Example question")
```

</Tab>
<Tab title = "JavaScript/TypeScript">
    
```javascript
import { Laminar as L, observe } from '@lmnr-ai/lmnr';

L.initialize({projectApiKey: '<YOUR_PROJECT_API_KEY>'})

await observe('myFunction', async () => {
    
    const question = "Example question"
    const context = "Example context"
    const answer = "Example answer"

    L.evaluateEvent(
        "Groundedness_score",
        "get_groundedness_score",
        {
            answer,
            question,
            context,
        },
        {"OPENAI_API_KEY": "my_openai_api_key"},
    )
    
    console.log(`The answer is: ${answer}`)
});
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

`evaluate_event` function will trigger the background process on Laminar's side and the event outcome will be recorded in the event outcome tab.

### Event metrics

After executing the code, you will be able to see the traces in the traces page.
If you open the trace by clicking on it, you will see the semantic event attached to the span.

Statistics of the events are available in the Laminar dashboard and the events can be seen in the events page.
If you click on the event, you will be able to access the trace where the event was triggered.
